= Aruba

Aruba-jbb is a fork of http://github.com/aslakhellesoy/aruba and is found
at http://github.com/byrnejb/aruba.

Aruba-jbb is a set of api methods and cucumber steps for driving out command
line application behaviours. The command line application can be anything,
a compiled C program, a Java program, a Perl script - anything. 

Aruba-jbb may also be used to test complex configuration files for third-party
applications where the software itself may not be modified.

Aruba-jbb works with Ruby-1.8.7 and Ruby-1.9.2


== Usage

  gem install aruba-jbb

Then, just require the library in one of your Ruby files under 
<tt>features/support</tt>

  require 'aruba'

Note that aruba-jbb and aruba cannot co-exist in the same project in any
case so that I have left the library name the same as upstream.  This
permits switching between the two in Bundler without having to alter env.rb
as well.  However, as of v-0.2.6.3 you have the option of requiring
<tt>aruba_jbb</tt> instead.

You now have several api mehtods and a selection of step definitions that
you can use in features that test stand-alone processes.  Look at 
aruba/cucumber_steps.rb to see all the step definitions. Look at 
features/*.feature for examples (which are also testing Aruba itself).
A start has been made at  documenting the api as well.  Any suggestions
to improve what is already there, or to provide whatever is missing, are
most welcome.

You should be aware that Aruba runs the application it tests and creates
all local output in its own working directory (awd). The awd defaults to
<tt>tmp/aruba</tt> and is purged and created by Aruba at the beginning of
every Scenario.  However, the contents created by the last Scenario 
are left in the awd for your inspection.

If it is desired to alter the awd then this fork provides for setting the
working directory to something else via the ARUBA_WORKING_DIR environmental
variable.  This must be set relative to the user's cwd.

This fork also provides support for a <tt>@no-aruba-tmpdir</tt> tag.  Use of
this tag will cause Aruba to run the test application in the user's cwd
instead of the awd.  When this tag is activated the directory contents are not
cleared, for obvious reasons. In fact, regardless of the tag, if the awd is
set to anything outside a directory tree containing a <tt>/tmp/</tt> portion
then an error is raised when trying to clear the contents.  For similar reasons, when this is the case
the <tt>rebase</tt> method also raises an error.

This fork contains a <tt>rebase</tt> api method which creates soft
(symbolic) links inside aruba's working directory to directories rooted
at the user's own current working directory (cwd). This permits the
application to find its configuation and support files in their usual
directories.  A string of directories to rebase also may be passed by
setting the ARUBA_REBASE environmental variable.  These must be set relative
to the user's cwd as well.

For example:

<tt>ARUBA_REBASE="bin,config,lib"</tt>

This will cause Aruba to create soft links called <tt>./tmp/aruba/bin</tt>,
<tt>./tmp/aruba/config</tt> and <tt>./tmp/aruba/lib</tt> each pointing
to the corresponding directory in the user's cwd.

Upstream addressed the more limited problem of locating <code>./bin</code> 
by adding a <code>@bin</code> tag which appends <code>./bin</code> to Cucumber's
LOADPATH. This technique is supported by Aruba-jbb as well.

The aruba <tt>run</tt> api method is surrounded by a timeout call.
This means that after the default period of 20 seconds any process under test
is forceably terminated.  However, be advised that the run api methods raises 
no error by default.  Instead the process exit status is set to -1 and
stderr will contain <em>Aruba::Api::ProcessTimeout: execution expired</em>.  
You are therefore advised to either override the When /run "([^\"])"/ do |cmd|
step definition or provide an alternative form.

The default timeout value may be overriden either by defining an environmental
variable called ARUBA_RUN_TIMEOUT to the approprate value (in seconds) or by
passing an optional third parameter to the run api method.  Fractional values
are acepted but granularity of less than interger seconds is not guarenteed to
work.   A helper step definition is provided to set environment variables
for process testing.  This is documented in the api rdoc.

Timeout does not handle the run_interactive api method. This is experimaental
code merged from Mike Sassak's fork.

== Ruby/RVM

Aruba once had api methods to run rvm ruby from inside aruba. These
were removed in upstream's 0.2.2 version and are no longer present in this
fork either. The last version of this fork having them was 0.2.6.

To test against specific versions of Ruby using RVM you are advised to use
following idiom (note the comma between Ruby version numbers):

<code>$ rvm 1.9.2,1.8.7 exec rake cucumber:wip </code>

or

<code>$ rvm 1.9.2,1.8.7 exec cucumber </code>


== Getting more output with tags.

Aruba has several tags you can use to see what command actually gets run 
(useful if you're using the RVM steps), STDOUT or STDERR. You can put these 
tags on individual scenarios, or on a feature. The tags are:

* <tt>@announce-cmd</tt> - See what command is is run
* <tt>@announce-stdout</tt> - See the stdout
* <tt>@announce-stderr</tt> - See the stderr
* <tt>@announce-dir</tt> - See the current directory
* <tt>@announce-env</tt> - See environment variables set by Aruba
* <tt>@announce</tt> - Does all of the above


== Note on Patches/Pull Requests
 
* Fork the project.
* Make your feature addition or bug fix.
* Add tests for it. This is important so that we do not break it in a
  future version unintentionally.
* Commit, do not mess with rakefile, version, or history.
  (if you want to have your own version, that is fine but bump 
  version in a commit by itself I can ignore when I pull)
* Send me a pull request. Bonus points for topic branches.


== Note on Aruba-JBB Step Definitions

This fork has extensively refactoried both the API and the Step
Definitions.  There are some minor syntax differences with the 
step definitions matchers provided with the parent.  Mostly these
have to do with making Aruba-jbb steps more specific so as to
avoid anticipated collisions with the user's own steps and to
regularlize usage.  For example <em>do have</em> instead of simply
<em>have</em>. Further, except in a very few cases, these step
matchers have removed the start of line and end of line anchors
together with most of the subject predicates so as to allow more
flexible sentence formulation.  

For example, instead of:

<tt>When /^I have a file named "([^\"]*)"$/ do |file|</tt>

This fork uses:

<tt>When /do(?:es)? have a file named "([^\"]*)"$/ do |file|</tt>

So in your features you can write this:

<tt> When I do have a file named "test"</tt>
.  .  .
<tt> When we do have a file named "test"</tt>
.  .  .
<tt> When they do have a file named "test"</tt>
.  .  .
<tt> When the user does have a file named "test"</tt>

== Note on Aruba-JBB Development Testing

All previously encountered testing exceptions have been resolved.
This version now passes all upstream tests and several more besides. 


== Note on Aruba (mainline)

I have renamed this gem since it has now evolved considerably away
from the baseline although, in the main, compatiblity between the
the two remains quite high for the end-user.  Obviously, if you
load both Aruba and Aruba-jbb in the same test process then you 
are going to encounter step matcher collisions. So, do not do that.


== Copyright

Portions Copyright (c) 2010 Aslak Hellesøy and David Chelimsky. 
Portions copyright (c) 2010 James B. Byrne.
See LICENSE for details.

== Support

You can contact me at byrnejb@jharte-lyne.ca.  I also monitor the 
cukes@googlegroups.com mailing list.
